Fix issue #31: Provide guidance on communicating questions (#238)
oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs: Get-help.md

## Table of Contents

* [Communication channels](#communication-channels)
  * [GitHub Discussions](#github-discussions)
  * [Google Chat or Hangouts](#google-chat-or-hangouts)
  * [GitHub](#github)
  * [Email](#email) 

> * [How to Ask Good Questions](#how-to-ask-good-questions)

Reviewer: This section isn't updated to match the changes in the doc?

Author: Done

> # Table of Contents

Reviewer 2: The double `##` is correct because GitHub automatically adds the filename as a title, so  we skip the `#` heading

* [Communication channels](#communication-channels)
  * [GitHub Discussions](#github-discussions)
  * [Google Chat or Hangouts](#google-chat-or-hangouts)
  * [GitHub](#github)
  * [Email](#email) 
* [How to Ask Good Questions](#how-to-ask-good-questions)
  * [General guidelines to follow](#general-guidelines-to-follow) 
  * [Providing error information](#providing-error-information)
* [Building your skills: Technical writing](#building-your-skills-technical-writing)
* [Setup-related questions](#setup-related-questions)
    * [Before you ask a setup question](#before-you-ask-a-setup-question)

>     * [How to ask a setup question](#how-to-ask-a-setup-question)

Reviewer 2: These now need to be un-indented by one level

Author: done

If you need help, there are a few communication channels you can use. Developers usually respond within 24 hours so long as you use a channel they actually check.

### GitHub Discussions

If you have questions regarding Oppia you can create a discussion here where Oppia's Welfare team and other developers will assist you in resolving the issue. You can create a discussion in any of the following categories based on the question:

> * __Developer announcements__: All announcements that affect developers for the Oppia repository will be announced here.

Reviewer 2: The sentence structure doesn't match the following two bullet points. The later points are only sentence fragments, but this point is a complete sentence. Instead, how about this:

> Announcements for the Oppia developer community.

(I recognize that this issue predates your changes, but since you're already editing this file, I figured this was a good time to go ahead and fix it.)

Author: okayy. I changed

You can even mention whole teams of people! For example, if you find an issue that is destabilizing the project, you could notify all the core maintainers by including `@oppia/core-maintainers` in your issue. The teams are all listed [here](https://github.com/orgs/oppia/teams).

### Email

> We have several mailing lists in the form of Google Groups that you can join(not much recommended):

Reviewer: Please drop "(not much recommended)". Perhaps change to "...you can join, but please note that these are less active than GitHub Discussions:"

Author: Done

* [oppia-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oppia-announce) is for announcements of new releases or blog posts. It's not for asking questions though.
* [oppia-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oppia-dev) is the main mailing list for communication between developers and for technical questions. You can post to it even if you're not a member of the group. This is where you can ask questions, solicit feedback, or make developer-specific announcements (e.g. a temporary GitHub outage).

You can also email your mentor with any questions. If you don't have a mentor, complete the steps on the [[wiki page for contributing code to Oppia|Contributing-code-to-Oppia]] and you'll be assigned one.

## How to Ask Good Questions

At Oppia we don’t care how silly your question is! Just ensure your question is clear, and provide us with enough information to help us resolve it faster. 

### General Guidelines to follow 

> * Be clear and concise: Clearly articulate your question to avoid confusion and allow others to understand it easily.

Reviewer: Perhaps bold the "Be clear and concise", "Provide context", etc. bits. Ditto for the next section.

Author: Done

* Provide context: If applicable, provide relevant background information to help others understand your question and situation.
* Be respectful: Maintain a respectful and courteous tone in your communication to foster a positive and inclusive community environment.
* Use proper formatting: Organize your question using paragraphs, bullet points, and appropriate formatting to enhance readability.
* Proofread your message: Take a moment to proofread your question to ensure clarity and accuracy before sending it.

### Providing Error Information 

When reporting an error, follow these steps to communicate the issue effectively:

> * Start with the Command: Rather than saying "I have an error," provide the actual command you ran. Copy and paste the command in your email or chat message to give recipients the complete context.

Reviewer: For the first part, use sentence case -- only capitalize the first letter of the whole phrase. Ditto below.

Author: Done

* Share Reproduction Steps: Include the specific steps that recipients should follow to reproduce the error you encountered. This allows them to investigate the issue more effectively.
* Explain Your Efforts and Conclusions: Explain what you've tried and what conclusions you've drawn, if any. (Providing a [debugging doc](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/wiki/Debugging-Docs) may help.)

### Building Your Skills: Technical Writing

In addition to effective communication, developing strong technical writing skills can greatly benefit your contributions. We recommend exploring the technical writing courses available at https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/overview. These courses can help you improve your ability to write clear code comments, create technical documentation, and effectively communicate complex ideas.

In addition to this, We've also divided the questions into 2 categories - Setup-related and General questions. You can start following the sections below to understand how you can ask each of them.

> ### Setup-related questions

Reviewer: Change to a higher-level heading: use two #'s instead of three #'s, so it's on par with the "general questions" section. Update subheadings below accordingly, as well as the table of contents.

Author: Done

* __Format your text for easy reading__: Organize your question using paragraphs, bullet points, and appropriate formatting to enhance readability.
* __Proofread your message__: Take a moment to proofread your question to ensure clarity and accuracy before sending it.

### Providing error information 

When reporting an error, follow these steps to communicate the issue effectively:

* __Start with the command__: Rather than saying "I have an error," provide the actual command you ran. Copy and paste the command in your email or chat message to give recipients the complete context.
* __Include the specific error message__: Share the exact error message you encountered. This helps others quickly identify the potential cause and provide relevant solutions or suggestions.
* __Share reproduction steps__: Include the specific steps that recipients should follow to reproduce the error you encountered. This allows them to investigate the issue more effectively.
* __Explain your efforts and conclusions__: Explain what you've tried and what conclusions you've drawn, if any. (Providing a [[Debugging Docs|Debugging-Docs]] may help.)

> * __Including relevant log lines__: Sometimes, log lines from the browser console or terminal can provide helpful context. However, ensure to only include relevant lines and omit unnecessary information to maintain the readability of the report.

Reviewer 2: This looks great! I just have a couple suggestions

```suggestion
* __Include relevant log lines__: Sometimes, log lines from the browser console or terminal can provide helpful context. However, ensure you only include relevant lines and omit unnecessary information to maintain the readability of the report.
```

Author: done

You can even mention whole teams of people! For example, if you find an issue that is destabilizing the project, you could notify all the core maintainers by including `@oppia/core-maintainers` in your issue. The teams are all listed [here](https://github.com/orgs/oppia/teams).

### Email

We have several mailing lists in the form of Google Groups that you can join, but please note that these are less active than GitHub Discussions:

* [oppia-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oppia-announce) is for announcements of new releases or blog posts. It's not for asking questions though.
* [oppia-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oppia-dev) is the main mailing list for communication between developers and for technical questions. You can post to it even if you're not a member of the group. This is where you can ask questions, solicit feedback, or make developer-specific announcements (e.g. a temporary GitHub outage).

> You can also email your mentor with any questions. If you don't have a mentor, complete the steps on the [[wiki page for contributing code to Oppia|Contributing-code-to-Oppia]] and you'll be assigned one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also email your mentor with any questions. If you don't have a mentor, complete the steps on the [[wiki page for contributing code to Oppia|Contributing-code-to-Oppia]] and we'll try to assign you one.
```

We don't always have enough mentors to keep up with all the new contributors, so this change will help set realistic expectations

Author: done

## How to Ask Good Questions

At Oppia we don’t care how silly your question is! Just ensure your question is clear, and provide us with enough information to help us resolve it faster. 

### General guidelines to follow 

* __Be clear and concise__: Clearly articulate your question to avoid confusion and allow others to understand it easily.
* __Provide context__: If applicable, provide relevant background information to help others understand your question and situation.
* __Be respectful__: Maintain a respectful and courteous tone in your communication to foster a positive and inclusive community environment.

> * __Use proper formatting__: Organize your question using paragraphs, bullet points, and appropriate formatting to enhance readability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* __Format your text for easy reading__: Organize your question using paragraphs, bullet points, and appropriate formatting to enhance readability.
```

"Use proper formatting" isn't as declarative as the headings for the other points. Upon reading the heading, we want readers to immediately have a sense of what we want them to do. They aren't going to know what formatting is "proper", so it's clearer if we tell them our goal ("easy reading") in the heading.

Author: yeah right, got it. Done

> * __Proofread your message__: Take a moment to proofread your question to ensure clarity and accuracy before sending it.

Reviewer 2: Yes! 👍 Thanks for adding this. I've been on the receiving end of plenty of questions that turn out to have a typo, and it's very confusing!

### Providing error information 

When reporting an error, follow these steps to communicate the issue effectively:

* __Start with the command__: Rather than saying "I have an error," provide the actual command you ran. Copy and paste the command in your email or chat message to give recipients the complete context.

> * __Include the specific error message__: Share the exact error message you encountered. This helps others quickly identify the potential cause and provide relevant solutions or suggestions.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add another bullet point about including relevant log lines in addition to the error message. Sometimes it's helpful to include log lines from the browser console or from the terminal if they lend helpful context. For example, if there's an error when installing Oppia, the log lines around the error can tell us how far the installation got before failing. I's also important to only include relevant lines and cut out irrelevant stuff to keep the report readable.

Author: You want me to add these exact sentences or add sentences by keeping these points in mind? I added few lines have a look.

* __Share reproduction steps__: Include the specific steps that recipients should follow to reproduce the error you encountered. This allows them to investigate the issue more effectively.

> * __Explain your efforts and conclusions__: Explain what you've tried and what conclusions you've drawn, if any. (Providing a [debugging doc](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/wiki/Debugging-Docs) may help.)

Reviewer 2: Please use the MediaWiki linking syntax (it's the links with the double brackets -- `[[...|...]]`) for internal links because those links will survive even if we move our wiki to another site

Author: okay done

## Building your skills: Technical writing

In addition to effective communication, developing strong technical writing skills can greatly benefit your contributions. We recommend exploring the technical writing courses available at https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/overview. These courses can help you improve your ability to write clear code comments, create technical documentation, and effectively communicate complex ideas.

> In addition to this, We've also divided the questions into 2 categories - Setup-related and General questions. You can start following the sections below to understand how you can ask each of them.

Reviewer 2: This feels out of place, especially since it's under the technical writing heading. I don't think it's necessary since the division between setup and general questions is clear from the table of contents. I think you can just delete this paragraph all together.

Author: okay
